README.md, before:

# unsubscan

A tool to help you find unsubscribe links in your emails

## About

I created `unsubscan` because I think that anyone should be able to quickly and easily look at their emails and:

- Unsubscribe from whatever they want
- Unsubscribe whenever they want
- Unsubscribe _for free_
- Unsubscribe without _yet another subscription service_
- Unsubscribe without having to give another company access to their emails
- Unsubscribe without having to forward emails to other companies

## Installation

Pre-compiled binaries of the latest release will be made available on the Releases page of this repository.

Alternatively, you may also compile this project from source if you have a working Rust development environment:

```
git clone https://github.com/LGUG2Z/unsubscan.git
cd unsubscan
cargo install --path .
```

## How it works

First, export your emails as an archive of EML files from your provider. Instructions on how to do this with different
email providers are below:

- [FastMail](https://www.fastmail.help/hc/en-us/articles/360060590573-Download-all-your-data#transfermail)
- [Proton Mail](https://proton.me/support/export-emails-import-export-app)
- [ZohoMail](https://www.zoho.com/mail/help/import-export-emails.html#alink2)

Once downloaded, extract the archive of emails to a new folder.

If you are running on a system that allows you to drag a folder directly onto an application to use that folder as an
input (e.g. dragging and dropping a folder from Explorer onto an `exe` file on Windows), then this is all you have to do.

If you are more comfortable on the command line, you can also call the binary with the path to your extracted folder of
EML files as the sole argument.

```
unsubscan 0.1.0
A tool to help you find unsubscribe links in your emails

USAGE:
    unsubscan [OPTIONS] <DIRECTORY>

ARGS:
    <DIRECTORY>    Directory of EML files to scan for unsubscribe links

OPTIONS:
        --debug              Enable debug logging
    -h, --help               Print help information
    -o, --output <OUTPUT>    The format in which to output scanned unsubscribe links [default: html]
                             [possible values: html, json]
    -V, --version            Print version information

```

The folder will be scanned for unsubscribe links and when the scanning is complete, an HTML page will open in your default
browser with a complete list of all the links found and further instructions and explanations.

If you are running `unsubscan` from the command line, you may also optionally receive the output in JSON format.

## Contributing

Please feel free to open a PR with links explaining how to export emails as EML files with other email providers.

I am not interested in adding MBOX support myself, but I will be happy to review and eventually accept a PR that adds
this functionality.

Commit message:

feat(output): add all-toggle + done btn per domain
This commit adds a 'Done' link to hide all emails from a particular
domain in the links column of the HTML output, and also adds a link back
to the official GitHub page in the output page header.

The binaries now also include the version tag.

The documentation has been updated to demonstrate how users of email
providers that don't allow eml archive exports can use Thunderbird or
similar email clients to save their own emails as eml files for use with
unsubscan.

README.md, after:

# unsubscan

A tool to help you find unsubscribe links in your emails

## About

I created `unsubscan` because I think that anyone should be able to quickly and easily look at their emails and:

- Unsubscribe from whatever they want
- Unsubscribe whenever they want
- Unsubscribe _for free_
- Unsubscribe without _yet another subscription service_
- Unsubscribe without having to give another company access to their emails
- Unsubscribe without having to forward emails to other companies

## Installation

Pre-compiled binaries of the latest release will be made available on the Releases page of this repository.

Alternatively, you may also compile this project from source if you have a working Rust development environment:

```
git clone https://github.com/LGUG2Z/unsubscan.git
cd unsubscan
cargo install --path .
```

## Preparing your emails

### Option 1: Get an archive of your emails from your provider as `.eml` files

Export your emails as an archive of `.eml` files from your provider. Instructions on how to do this with different
email providers are below:

- [FastMail](https://www.fastmail.help/hc/en-us/articles/360060590573-Download-all-your-data#transfermail)
- [Proton Mail](https://proton.me/support/export-emails-import-export-app)
- [ZohoMail](https://www.zoho.com/mail/help/import-export-emails.html#alink2)

Once downloaded, extract the archive of emails to a new folder.

### Option 2: Save your emails as `.eml` files using Thunderbird

If you host your email with a provider that does not provide exported archives of your emails as `.eml` files (e.g.
Gmail, you can use Thunderbird (or any desktop email client that allows you to save your emails as `.eml` files) to do
this yourself.

Select the desired subset of emails that you wish to scan (or all of them, if you'd like), and then
select `File -> Save As -> File` from the menu bar to save them to a new folder.

## How it works

If you are running on a system that allows you to drag a folder directly onto an application to use that folder as an
input (e.g. dragging and dropping a folder from Explorer onto an `exe` file on Windows), then all you have to drag is drag
your folder of emails on top of the `unsubscan` executable.

If you are more comfortable on the command line, you can also call the binary with the path to your extracted folder of
`.eml` files as the sole argument.

```
unsubscan 0.1.0
A tool to help you find unsubscribe links in your emails

USAGE:
    unsubscan [OPTIONS] <DIRECTORY>

ARGS:
    <DIRECTORY>    Directory of EML files to scan for unsubscribe links

OPTIONS:
        --debug              Enable debug logging
    -h, --help               Print help information
    -o, --output <OUTPUT>    The format in which to output scanned unsubscribe links [default: html]
                             [possible values: html, json]
    -V, --version            Print version information

```

The folder will be scanned for unsubscribe links and when the scanning is complete, an HTML page will open in your default
browser with a complete list of all the links found and further instructions and explanations.

If you are running `unsubscan` from the command line, you may also optionally receive the output in JSON format.

## Contributing

Please feel free to open a PR with links explaining how to export emails as `.eml` files with other email providers.

I am not interested in adding MBOX support myself, but I will be happy to review and eventually accept a PR that adds
this functionality.
